---
title: Chemical metrology
permalink: /lab-services/chemical-metrology/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h1><strong>Chemical metrology</strong></h1><p>Our Chemical Metrology Laboratory provides metrological services to local chemical testing and clinical laboratories.</p><blockquote><h2><strong>Services</strong></h2><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><a href="https://www.hsa.gov.sg/about-us/applied-sciences/chemical-metrology/metrological-services" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Metrological services</a></p></li><li><p><a href="http://www.hsa.gov.sg/about-us/applied-sciences/chemical-metrology/chemical-metrology-events" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Chemical metrology events</a></p></li></ul></blockquote><h2><strong>Chemical Metrology Laboratory</strong></h2><p>HSA is a Designated Institute for Chemical Metrology in the areas of food, healthcare, medical science, pharmaceuticals &amp; health products, and forensics.</p><p>Our Chemical Metrology Laboratory (CML) provides metrological services to local chemical testing and clinical laboratories. We offer Certified Reference Materials (CRMs) for method validation, calibration and quality control, as well as Proficiency Testing (PT) programmes for food, water, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and fuel oil testing laboratories, and an External Quality Assessment (EQA) programme for clinical laboratories. Our quality system is based on ISO/IEC 17025, ISO 17034 and ISO/IEC 17043.</p><p>We are members of the Consultative Committee for Amount of Substance – Metrology in Chemistry and Biology (CCQM), the Joint Committee for Traceability in Laboratory Medicine (JCTLM) and the Asia Pacific Metrology Programme (APMP).</p><h2><strong>Peer reviews</strong></h2><p>Our CML was peer reviewed by quality system experts from the Singapore Accreditation Council (SAC) and by technical experts from the international chemical metrology community in 2011, 2014, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2023. The reviews recognised the laboratory’s capability and competence in realising national measurement standards, establishing traceability in chemical measurements, and disseminating traceability to customers, in accordance with the Comité International des Poids et Mesures (CIPM) Mutual Recognition Arrangement, ISO/IEC 17025 and ISO 17034.</p><h2><strong>Accreditations</strong></h2><p>Our laboratory is&nbsp;<a href="https://www.sac-accreditations.gov.sg/cab/acab/Documents/PTP-2013-001.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">accredited by SAC</a>&nbsp;as a PT/EQA provider in accordance with ISO/IEC 17043 requirements.</p><p>Last updated: 13 Apr 2023</p>